----------------------------
Notes on Aspects of Language
----------------------------

I - Wildflower
--------------

language is a wildflower. with roots of hidden networks, downward grown. it slithers through soft dirt like a knot of worms. it spreads unseen like weeds to fill every crack and crevice, a vital pressure whose only valve is the spray of green across the dead earth. 

dig up the unwieldy garden, the duplicitous multiplicity that disguises its buried singularity. extract the hidden structure of roots. prune the varieties, the divergent species grown from a single seed, reared and flowered by the errancy of the sun and rain. peel back the layers, shuck the stalks, discard the fibrous shell. press and pin the velvet petals to glass displays:

exist: the extravagant exterior. the exoskeleton of expressions that explore the exotic external.

subsist: the submerged substance. the subterranean substrate subliminally subsumed into subordination. 

insist: the inciting incursion. the internal incandescence that incinerates incoherence through induction. 

assist: the ascendant aspect. the aspiration of assonance assimilating astonishment through associative assertions.

consist: the concealed container. the contours of contradiction that conceit confers through conceivable contextualizations.

persist: the perennial perception. the perfect performance of percussion percolating through perilious perimeters.

the prodigial brood, dispersed through the fields, interbreeding and yielding to the whims of the climate. harvet the phylum. crush the leaves. mix them together. distill the material through steam and collect the condensate, the oily residue of abstraction. an ancient potion, a cistern of sistere, the stare of eons.

II - Songbird
-------------

language is a songbird. it suffuses the world with overlapping choruses of alien tongues. a symphony of location, of triangulating echoes, the smooth superposition of sound scapes the muses fuse into space. 

there is grammar in the noise.

the hiss of geese, hysterical and histrionic, coiling in serpentine necks. the straight edge of demarcation, the frantic flapping announcement of occupation. a screech that shears a circumference and clears the ground.

the quacking curiosity of dottering ducks, landing in fat splashes. the goofy cousins of geese hanging upside down like inverted buoys, their waggling feet kicking helpless with the overwhelming desire to plunge. the playful fingers of the flock, the rowdy laughter of the crowd. 

the rapid radar rhythm of circling sparrows, flickering fast in flight, their sudden movements coordinated in spastic weaves like weapons of war engaged in life-or-death combat. the dragnet signal of fleets traversing an ocean of sky, sentries in motion, a hive mind.

the mournful melodies of smitten thrush, their heartsick dirges lilting like pyres. the ever-flowing ashes of poetry on the wind. the melancholy that drifts in cooling embers, to blanket the earth in fertile white soot.

the lazy resigned cooing of pigeons waddling across the pavement. the exasperation of experience, the way musics dispels into sighs with age. the elegance of growing old and fading into oblivion, dissolving in white noise.

III - Game
----------

language is a game. it consists of moves and rules, of boards and pieces. each speaker becomes a tactician. each deployment serves a strategy. the formation becomes the function. the form becomes the content. 

| though rhyme accents the metaphor
|   discretion is advised.
| reserve the piece, it's better for
|   the ends that plans devised. 
|
| the flowing meter often heard 
| aligns precise in time with stress.
| the steady thrum of logic's pulse, 
| deduction hums in ordered flow.
| 
| power packs a different shape with
| forceful gusts of shouted words that
| stop the sentence cold for thought to
| ponder slow the spots that linger.
| 
| but just as easily whimsical,
| poetry carelessly galloping,
| valiantly posturing endlessly,
| effortless visual symphony. 
| 
| the way words weigh different in sequence.
| in sequence the different way words weigh.
| the different way words in sequence weigh.
| 
| the novel fluid in fluid novels. 
| the alternate interpretations that alternate. 
| each life lives in words a hundred different lives.
|
| the aibohphobia of semiordnilaps, 
| the parts that strap
| a spool of loops.
| on serif peels sleep fires, no? 
|
| an aim that hides a name
| a name that hides an aim
| the flow ingrained composes
| the flowing rain decomposes
|
| until all that remains
| is the pure image 
| of red as deep as blood
| and lines as straight as bone
| the skeletal structure
| that wears words like skin.

IV - Motion
-----------

language is motion. it is the pure movement of premise to consequence, of universal to particular. it never sleeps, it never stops, always becoming the next word, the next thought. The accumulation of words, sentences, paragraphs, like the way time piles up into days, weeks and months. ceaseless kinetic energy, boundless potential. the trajectory of narrative, the physics of story.

the seed. the sprout. the flower.

the interpretation is inescapable. the story moves through the words in stop-motion, the illusion of progression. causal logic is the primitive constraint all grammars must satisfy, the propellant that flings words through prescribed narrative arcs. the story is the pendulum that orders all things around its measured sway.

the boy. the call. the hero.

archetypes reign above the parts of speech like a linguistic pantheon of gods, the higher powers that pull the strings of syntax and make the puppet-thought dance in semantic pantomime. subatomic syllables yield to the tidal force of cosmic meaning. every story is a hologram, a volume encoded onto a surface, the projection of a shadow onto a cave wall. 

the garden. the fruit. the fall.

every story is the same story. every story is a different story. the implication is infinite. the set of all sets contains itself, forever exceeding the container it constructs for itself. the story is transcendent. infinity is an ellipsis.

every sentence that never ends starts with the phrase, "every sentence that never ends starts with the phrase, "every sentence that never ends start with the phrase...

V - Empire 
----------

language is empire. a dynasty that rules the realm of the mind by divine right. it is the limits of thought, the boundaries of the known world. its seat of power lies in decrees and edicts, the clauses of laws and the fine print of contracts. etymology is genealogy, the family tree of royalty, the pure bloodlines that converge and inaugurate history. 

language moves on horseback, delivered by the blades of swords and tips of arrows. a herald of invasion, the vanguard that charges headfirst into enemy lines. every war is won by words. the last traces of a people disappear with their language. the ground is a graveyard of the forgotten tongues of the conquered. every word is a soldier occupying a foreign land.

language is a latin mass, an immense cathedral of opulence, the obscene glow of gold. it cows with its complexity and affected air of mystery. 

language is cloak and dagger. it can neither confirm nor deny. it can only represent a state of affairs, possibly true, possibly false. it is the limited hang, the half truth, the sea of misinformation. it is crowd control, a hypnosis of repetition and response.

- July 2025