------
Eulogy
------

| mound of the earth, the funeral pyre,
| sermons of fire, infernos of oak.
|
| burning of briars, spiraling higher,
| chorus expired and softly I spoke:
|
| nothing is left, but cinders remain,
| warm to the touch, as memories fade. 
| 
| look to the thrashing showers of rain,
| mourn with the hissing coils arrayed.
| 
| pound for the taking, body of ash,
| weight of the flame, transmuted to wind. 
| 
| thundering void, in symbols that flash,
| scavenging clouds, futures descend.
| 
| weep with the water, falling to feet,
| honor your father, drink of his heat.

- August 2025

.. list-table:: Submission History
  :widths: 15 15 15
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Date
    - Publication
    - Status
  * - August 15, 2025
    - Baltimore Review
    - Rejected
  * - August 16, 2025
    - American Poetry Review
    - Rejected
  * - August 16, 2025
    - Missouri Review
    - Rejected
  * - August 22, 2025
    - Palette Poetry
    - Pending
  * - August 22, 2025
    - Willows Wept Review
    - Pending
  * - August 22, 2025
    - Macrame Literary Journal
    - Rejected
  * - August 22, 2025
    - Glass
    - Pending
  * - August 25, 2025
    - Oxford Poetry Prize
    - Rejected
  * - August 25, 2025
    - Plougshares
    - Rejected
  * - August 25, 2025
    - Midsummer Dream House Context
    - Pending
  * - August 26, 2025
    - Gavialidae
    - Rejected
  * - August 27, 2025
    - Sligo Creek Publishing
    - Pending
  * - August 29, 2025
    - Raleigh Review
    - Pending
  * - August 29, 2025
    - Banyan Review Poetry Contest
    - Rejected
  * - September 5, 2025
    - Amethyst Review
    - Rejected
  * - September 9, 2025
    - Garfield Lake Review
    - Accepted
  * - October 6th, 2025
    - Skummel Magazine
    - Rejected
  * - October 7th, 2025
    - DASH Literay Journal
    - Pending
  * - November 24, 2025
    - Artists from Maryland
    - Acceptance


Acceptance
~~~~~~~~~~

.. epigraph::

  Dear Grant,

  Thank you for taking the time to submit to Artists from Maryland. We would love to feature you as February's Maryland Artist of the Month, with "Eulogy" and "Larksong"!

  We're grateful for being able to enjoy your work. Please respond as soon as possible to confirm that this selection is still available, so we can start preparing for your feature!

  -- Aldrin Badiola, Editor-in-chief of Artists from Maryland

.. epigraph::

  Dear Grant Moore,

  On behalf of the editorial board of the Garfield Lake Review, I am happy to write that we have accepted Eulogy/Larksong/The Pantoums of Dementia/Ode to Death/The Origin of Lies for publication in our 2026 edition!

  Thank you for your contribution to our growing journal. We are pleased to publish your work in this years edition.

  If you require any further edits to your piece, please reach out directly to our Editor in Chief, Logan Schreiber, at lschreiber@uolivet.edu. If we should need any edits to your piece, a team member will be in touch with you after acceptance. In the meantime, if you have any questions, please let me know.

  -- Logan Schreiber, Editor in Chief

Rejection
~~~~~~~~~

.. epigraph::

  Hi Grant,

  Thank you for sending Landscapes/Cathedral/Ode to Death/Eulogy to SKUMMEL. Your piece stayed with us, haunting the room in the best way. While we decided not to accept it this time, it came close. We kept returning to it during our final reads. If you know what a personal rejection is, this is that.

  We’d love to see more from you in the future. Consider this an open invitation to send us your next work.

  Our pages are shaped by the voices that linger. Yours is one we hope will return.

  -- The Editors, SKUMMEL