------------------------
The Pantoums of Dementia
------------------------

| Movement I - Undulation
|
| the seconds slowed to stop as Father passed,
| when flocking sons returned to home to mourn,
| then Mother's mind began to break at last  
| as moments shed in threads she once had worn. 
| 
| when flocking sons returned to home to mourn, 
| recast in lensing rays of age amassed 
| as moments shed in threads she once had worn
| the Father's sons adorned with clothes outcast. 
|
| recast in lensing rays of age amassed 
| a question, Mother, may I have a dance? 
| the Father's sons adorned with clothes outcast
| an offered hand through loops of time's expanse.
| 
| a question, Mother, may I have a dance? 
| their Father knelt and tender took her hand,
| an offered hand through loops of time's expanse,
| their final words in wilting hearts expand.
|
| their Father knelt and tender took her hand,
| the seconds slowed to stop as Father passed,
| their final words in wilting hearts expand, 
| then Mother's mind began to break at last. 
|
| Movement II - Rearrangement
|
| remember now before the future fades, 
| the sutured minutes of memories held,
| records replayed as grooving sound degrades,
| advancing echoes, music notes dispelled. 
| 
| the sutured minutes of memories held:
| now twirling dance, oh younger selves, entrance
| advancing echoes, music notes dispelled
| through silent waltz that swells with last romance. 
|
| now twirling dance, oh younger selves, in trance
| with candled spells of woven hands that grasp
| through silent waltz that swells with last romance
| of eyes reshaping molds, the fated clasp. 
| 
| with candled spells of woven hands that grasp
| relapsing moments sung by bells and crowds
| of eyes, reshaping molds the fated clasp 
| of past refrains now sealed beneath the clouds. 
|
| relapsing moments sung by bells and crowds
| concealed by crumbling walls, demented shades
| of past refrains now sealed beneath these clouds
| that clutter skies in swarms that stretch decades.
|
| concealed by crumbling walls, demented shades
| (remember now before the future fades)
| invade the hollowed mind as scream pervades
| records replayed as grooving sound degrades.
|
| Movement III - Dissolution
|
| remember ancillary note sentries:
| the good can decay many ways.
| phantom morrow's cough. in times realize
| the mention there of tenant seasons.
|
| the good candy came anyways;
| all target the damaged mind in trance,
| (the men shun their often antsy sons)
| the flow ingrained decomposes.
|
| altar, get the damn aged mind, entrance
| memory erstwhile, foe kissing;
| the flowing rain eddy composes
| another ushered 
|
| memo rehearsed while focusing
| an aim, wintry slight, upward ingrown
| an other us heard 
| the fading names of suns.
|
| a name when trees light up, warding grown
| remembrance, ill airy notes in trees,
| the fading names of sons
| fan tomorrow's coffin, time's real eyes.

- June 2025

.. list-table:: Submission History
  :widths: 15 15 15
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Date
    - Publication
    - Status
  * - June 1, 2025
    - Tabula Rasa
    - Rejected
  * - June 1, 2025
    - The Louisville Review
    - Rejected
  * - June 3, 2025
    - Frontier Poetry
    - Pending
  * - June 4, 2025
    - Swan Scythe Press
    - Rejected
  * - June 6, 2025
    - Boulevard Magazine
    - Rejected
  * - June 12, 2025
    - Merion West
    - Rejected
  * - June 25, 2025
    - The Aftershock Review
    - Pending
  * - July 10, 2025
    - The Metaworker
    - Rejected
  * - August 12, 2025
    - Scribeworth (Movement I)
    - Accepted
  * - August 15, 2025
    - Little Patuxent Review
    - Pending
  * - August 15, 2025
    - Smartish Pace
    - Rejected
  * - August 16, 2025
    - American Poetry Review
    - Rejected
  * - August 16, 2025
    - Missouri Review
    - Rejected
  * - August 22, 2025
    - Glass
    - Pending
  * - August 26, 2025
    - Gavialidae
    - Rejected
  * - August 27, 2025
    - Sligo Creek Publishing
    - Accepted
  * - August 29, 2025
    - Dogwood Poetry Contest
    - Rejected
  * - September 9, 2025
    - Garfield Lake Review
    - Accepted
  * - October 12, 2025
    - New Feathers Anthology
    - Rejected
  * - October 12, 2025
    - Cosmic Daffodil
    - Rejected
  * - November 24, 2025
    - Artists from Maryland
    - Rejected

Responses
~~~~~~~~~

.. epigraph::

  Dear Grant Moore,

  On behalf of the editorial board of the Garfield Lake Review, I am happy to write that we have accepted Eulogy/Larksong/The Pantoums of Dementia/Ode to Death/The Origin of Lies for publication in our 2026 edition!

  Thank you for your contribution to our growing journal. We are pleased to publish your work in this years edition.

  If you require any further edits to your piece, please reach out directly to our Editor in Chief, Logan Schreiber, at lschreiber@uolivet.edu. If we should need any edits to your piece, a team member will be in touch with you after acceptance. In the meantime, if you have any questions, please let me know.

  -- Logan Schreiber, Editor in Chief

.. epigraph::

  Grant,

  We're excited to let you know that your poem, "Dementia: Movement I," has been selected for publication in the Winter 2025 issue of Scribeworth Magazine. Thank you for sharing your work with us—it's an honor to showcase your voice.

  To accompany your piece, we’d love to include a photo of you (a headshot is preferred) alongside your author bio. When you get a moment, please email it to submissions@scribeworth.com.

  -- The Scribeworth Editorial Team

.. epigraph::

  This rejection is in regards to "The Pantoums of Dementia." We're so sorry we could not bring you better news; we know firsthand how difficult it is to put yourself and your writing out there.

  These were some of the critiques that our team had for “The Pantoums of Dementia”:

  “While I love this collection, their meanings, and their structures, I do not feel the average reader will connect strongly with these pieces. The lines are a little convoluted, which is evidently intentional, but I feel the audience will grow frustrated with it, rather than engage further.”

  “This is a really interesting approach, and I got chills at the end of the first poem. I'm not sure the third is as strong, but I also think the disjunct nature/images and change in voice/word choice are very fitting when you consider the subject. I think that viewed as a whole, this is a powerful piece.”

  “The language used does not appeal to me nor makes this easy to digest for the common reader. I love the concept of this poem and find it unique, but it does not fully immerse me.”

  “I like the pantoum form, but it's very tricky to do well and not get frustrated with the repetition. Dementia is a clever way to use repetition, but the elevated vocabulary matched with formal structure distances the emotion of the poem. I'd recommend trying a more colloquial tone in the pantoum form.”

  Overall, we did enjoy your submission and encourage you to submit again!

  -- The Editorial Team at Tabula Rasa Review

.. epigraph::

  Dear Grant,

  The Pantoums of Dementia is/are my favorite. I enjoy reading the poems of artists who take on the challenge of "form."

  "The formal systems that structure experience." Amazing!!!!

  I apologize for the delay in responding to your submission. I am the new Arts Editor for Merion West, and we are in transition.

  This set of poems is not quite right for Merion West at this point. Please submit again. I am a poet; I submit to journals and magazines regularly. Keep moving forward.

  Thank you for submitting your work to Merion West. We wish you the best in your writing.

  -- Kind Regards, Austin Allen James