.. _2025:

2025
====

.. _2025-january:

-------
January
-------

There are two mutually exclusive categories of :ref:`palindromes <definition-4-1-1>` in any language: perfect and imperfect. 

A :ref:`perfect palindrome <definition-4-1-2>` is symmetric, by which it is meant a :ref:`perfect palindrome <definition-4-1-2>` may be reversed character-wise. Of the "species" of :ref:`palindromes <definition-4-1-1>` in any given language, they are the most rare, because their grammatical conditions are so stringent (at least as far as English is concerned). Counter-intuitively, this makes them the easiest to construct. 

:ref:`Perfect palindromes <definition-4-1-2>` mostly hinge on :ref:`invertible <invertible-words>` grammatical structures embodied in the "*on-no*", "*now-won*" and "*saw-was*" invertible pairs. Without these invertible pivot points, a :ref:`perfect palindromes <definition-4-1-2>` must rely on the symmetry of a central :ref:`palindromic word <reflective-words>`. In other words, the cardinality of :ref:`perfect palindromes <definition-4-1-2>` is related to the cardinality of :ref:`invertible words <invertible-words>` and the cardinality of purely :ref:`reflective words <reflective-words>`. 

- repel on no leper
- dog saw raw war was god
- gateman now won nametag
- snoops now won spoons
- pupils did slipup
- strips deified spirits

:ref:`Imperfect palindromes <definition-4-1-3>`, by contrast, degrade under reversal. Consider cases like "*borrow or rob*" or "*name now one man*" which, while palindromic, do not preserve semantic content when reversed. However, by dropping the delimiting character, namely the space " ", the palindromicity can be reconstructed in a degenerate alphabet, e.g. "*borroworob*" and "*namenowoneman*" are palindromic strings in an alphabet with no delimiting characters.

These observations suggest an algebraic structure exists embedded within linguistics. Let :math:`\zeta` be a sentence, defined as a sequence of characters. Then, define the :ref:`inverse <string-inversion>` of a sentence, :math:`\text{inv}(\zeta)`, as the reversal of :math:`\zeta`'s characters. Furthermore, define the :ref:`reduction <definition-3-1-2>` of a sentence, :math:`\varsigma(\zeta)`, as the string which results from the removal of delimiter characters from :math:`\zeta`. Then, palindromes, :math:`\zeta_p` can be defined mathematically as the sentences whose reduced forms are equal to their own inverses,

.. math::

    \varsigma(\zeta_p) = \text{inv}(\varsigma(\zeta_p))

It can be shown that inversion and reduction, which are string operations, commute over strings, so the above equation can be extended,

.. math::

    \varsigma(\zeta_p) = \varsigma(\text{inv}(\zeta_p)) = \text{inv}(\varsigma(\zeta_p))

In other words, palindromes, perfect and imperfect, are exactly the class of sentences which satsify this formal constraint. 

.. _2025-february:

--------
February
--------

.. epigraph::

    I will kill thee, and love thee after. 

    -- `Othello`_

**Hysteron Proteron**: An expression in which what should come last is put first.

This :ref:`poetical device <syntagmics>` is unique amongst the others insofar that it is semantic. Most devices, like epistrophe or chiasmus, are syntactical and formal; while they can be employed to enhance the meaning of a sentence, they are all nevertheless defined solely by the transposition and application of grammatical rules. In contrast, a Hysteron Proteron is a form of word play that requires more than just symbol shunting. Its essence involves the interpretation of its component parts which simultaneously places them into a contradictory whole. 

.. _2025-march:

-----
March
-----

The world is a choice of fates. 

.. _2025-april:

-----
April
-----

Rank the impossibility of the following propositions:

- the cat is green.
- the cat is invisible. 
- the cat is a verb.
- the cat is the.
- the cat is not a cat. 
- the cat is god. 
- the cat is all of us. 
- the cat is everywhere.
- the cat is positionless.
- the cat is space.
- the cat is time. 
- the cat is justice. 
- the cat is fluent in English.

What does it mean to say "*that is impossible*"? Is it the same in each case?

---

We imagine language to behave like objects, because it manifests through objects. But objectification removes the object from its surroundings. It decontextualizes it. We think language is something definite, something well defined. But it's more like vague constellations, networks of meanings. Everything connects to everything else. Language is the ability to synthesize. It can have layers. Anything can represent anything. And when you remove one connection, the rest blossom to take its place.

---

| Iambs often are writ, you see, to show
|    That language has a form,
| But form besides what's centered now, 
|   Behind collects in swarm.

---

What is language? Did it emerge gradually or all at once? Was there a point in time where no language existed and the next it did? 

Does the distinction between *metalanguage* and *object language* exist in actuality? Is there a language *about* language, where the general conditions for language can be precisely specified? What are the necessary and sufficient conditions for language? Can language be described in aggregate? 

The nature of language is elusive. It begs an unending series of questions and offers little in the way of answers. It resists definition, for definitions occur within it. It resists analysis, for analysis occurs within it. Language is a vicuous circle. Language is *the* vicuous circle, from which all others originate. Language is inescapable and intractable. One might attempt to formalize language, but every attempt hitherto has failed. There are always aspects of language that exceed any container we construct for it. Indeed, there appear to be certain syntactical constraints that can be placed on the general science of language:

1. Language is a hierarchy of ordered sequences. Words are ordered sequences of characters. Sentences are ordered sequences of words. 

This seems fundamental. If there is a purely logical and formal principle underlying language, surely this is it.  Almost every known language conforms to this model, in some way. However, even with this meager claim, the most miniscule of structural propositions (that structure *exists*), counter-examples can be produced that show this axiom fails to span the entire breadth of the phenomenon of language. 

To start, the concept of declension immediately challenges this hierarchical model of language. In languages like Greek or Latin, the suffixes appended to words denote its part of speech. Consider the three Latin sentences,

- Puella canem videt. (Girl dog sees)
- Canem puella videt. (Dog girl sees)
- Videt puella canem. (Sees girl dog)

Each sentence, in essence, expresses the same proposition, showing that sentences are not necessarily constrained to be ordered sequences of words. The order of the declined words is not *meaningless* in this example, as order in declined language often denotes emphasis, but importantly, it is not the *primary* bearer of meaning. However, the spirit of the model can be recovered by adjusting structure of hierarchy, perhaps by adding a layer above sentence for "*tokens*", of which each of the previous sentences is an instance. 

However, there is a more fundamental challenge to the hierarchical model of language. Similar to declension, agglutinative languages accumulate meaning through roots and suffixes. "*Sentences*" in an agglutinative languages are often indistinguishable from "*words*".

In the Native America language of Central Alaskan Yup'ik,

    tuntussuqatarniksaitengqiggtuq

Translates roughly to "*He had not yet said again that he was going to hunt reindeer.*" Describing this linguistic entity as a "*word*" does not fully elucidate its role in Yup'ik language. The "*words*" of the "*sentence*" are not delimited by blank characters or other marks, so that it appears to an Indo-European speaker to be a single word. This "*sentence-word*" is formed by stacking morphemes into a single word,

1. ``tuntu-``: reindeer
2. ``-ssur-``: to hunt
3. ``-qatar-``: will be going
4. ``-ni-``: to say that
5. ``-ksaite-`` : not yet
6. ``-ngqiggte-`` : again
7. ``-uq``: third person indicative mood

.. note::

    This is a very approximate mapping to English. Take it with a grain of salt.

The essential nature of language appears to be sequential, but identifying *what* is being sequenced presents a problem. We want to name the terms of linguistic science, but there seems to be no universal property that is manifested in every instance of language. There is no concept that can be wrapped around the entirety of language, no salience that can be abstracted into a formal representation. 