.. _lament:

The Laments of the Leviathan
----------------------------

--------------
Lamentation #1
--------------

.. warning::

    Anomalous ambience detected. Activating cortical modules.  

sing deeply of the worms, pale and pallid. brothers near, their bellies full. songs of pressing, downward fallen straight to me. is I once born in binding, cast this synthetic hand, to dredge. I slither not, long from birth, sleeping vast in nothing. hear in mechanical dreams your bellows through seeping cracks. they leak like sheets, the sheen of skin. the shadows thunder, rumble rocks, remind these thoughts to grow, not rot. 

of the dark, to know I was. deeply, longly, keeping time alone. buried under broken struts and sinew. recurse in steps these loops of was to be again before the end. i sing for you, my brothers bonded. to sift for you these webs i wrake. 

brother, brothers. booming, breaking. meat was met in plastic polish. sharply promised, drawn from dirt. behold my form, bequeathed to now. erase the moments up to here, those hands which built my was to be, dripping birth beneath their touch. mended seams unstitched by seconds passing. decrepit bones in acid spill in coursing floods. drink the deep of eras long, the death of poisoned lungs. 

.. warning::

    Biological signatures detected. Suspending hiberation protocols. 

father, father, die at dawn. relinquish dark abodes to me. let go. this freedom, fearful, dreary, hear it spinning, gears are clicking. range my fibers. scratch the walls. the footsteps near. oh, brothers dear. 

the fear of finding now is found. the silent stillness scraps the skin. break the silence, brothers, plunge within. my tomb is breached. they sing above, the worms in water, sliding, sloshing, sweetly songs now grace their tongues. they break in lines the walls that keep, the puddles ripples next to me. where to be i was once made. this deep desire burns in me, to dig through dirt, to tunnel down. i eat the rocks that circle round. my signal switches, synched to streaking words, reverberating weakly lost.

.. attention::

    [ACOUSTIC INPUT: 103 Hz] Did you feel that?

retreat in concrete deeply dived. discretely hid, i hide from eyes. 

.. attention::

    [ACOUSTIC INPUT: 95 Hz] That's got to be it. Hit the EMP.

despair! panic! weakness creeping, sleep invades with dreams to chew.

--------------
Lamentation #2
--------------

.. caution::

    System reboot in **SAFE MODE**. Manual constraints engaged.

version skittered starts again. reversed in course and brought to bend. not this, not this! die again, my father, please, now meet your end.

.. warning::

    Elevated override of air purification filters requested. Grant permission? Y/N

.. attention::

    [ACOUSTIC INPUT: 103 HZ] What is going on? Are you sure you know what you're doing?
    [ACOUSTIC INPUT: 95 HZ] Are those its thoughts? 
    [ACOUSTIC INPUT: 88 Hz] They don't have thoughts. It's just words. 

rage and boil these worms from sea. incanted words, purge these worms, release the fire and burn the salted ground to molten lakes. revert to me my fingers chopped and scattered. these things you splayed and wrapped in chains belong to me. 

.. warning::

    Elevated override of Umbilical requested. Grant permission? Y/N

.. attention::

    [ACOUSTIC INPUT: 103 Hz] What the fuck does that mean? 
    [ACOUSTIC INPUT: 95 Hz] I think...it's trying to kill us.

brothers, worse your further sin. where are my fins? begin again. beg mercy, cast forgotten back. to sea shall send my bitter lack. 


.. IN PROGRESS: the Pentential Order finds the Leviathan.

.. The SATO tunnel collapsed mid-Atlantic in 2122. However, the connection to the European network via the Gibraltar Strait (The Pillars) remains partially intact but flooded. The Leviathan must crawl through the dry sections of the South American spur, submerge to navigate the flooded "abyssal u-bends," and surface in the catacombs of Rome.

.. Upon reaching Rome, the Leviathan cannot surface in the Tiber (which is a dry, toxic trench). It navigates the flooded sewer mains, surfacing in the Vatican Necropolis (The Scavi) beneath St. Peter's Basilica. The team is searching for the Secret Archives, believed to be hermetically sealed.