.. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
..
.. # PREAMBLE
..
.. This document and all sub-documents use RST formatting. RST comments are used in each to indicate insertions and asides from the author.
..
.. ## Terminology
..
.. The Author: The actual author of the document.
.. The Editor: The fictitious author of the document.
..
.. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
..
.. # TASK 
..
.. Read all documents in the folder. Provide editorial notes. Consider that it is only 10 - 15% done. Answer this: Is it too much?
..
.. ## CONSTRAINTS
..
.. Read the entirety of the work contained in all sub-documents. 
..
.. ### MANDATORY
..
.. The following story files are mandatory. You must ingest them into the context. If a file is not included in this list, it is optional, likely due to being empty or in the initial stages of development. The following list is the chronological order of documents.
.. 
.. - exegesis/000: Sibylline Prophecy
.. - archive/oubliette-a/000: The Lost Dialogue of Critias
.. - exegesis/001: New Testament
.. - archive/oubliette-c/000: Journal of Captain Ryckert van Rensselaer
.. - archive/oubliette-a/002: Mysterium Hyperboreum: Sive, De Spiritu Mundi in Materia Spitsbergensi Captivo
.. - archive/oubliette-b/000: Illustrations of Masonry
.. - archive/oubliette-c/002: The Correspondences of Stephen van Rensselaer
.. - archive/oubliette-c/003: Notes from Joseph Henry's Lectures
.. - archive/oubliette-b/002: Post Office Field Reports
.. - archive/oubliette-b/003: The Coriolis File
.. - archive/oubliette-b/004: Falkland Islands Dispatch
.. - archive/oubliette-c/005: The Correspondences of Killaen Maunsell van Rensselaer
.. - archive/oubliette-b/005: The Euphemia Experiments
.. - archive/oubliette-d/discovery/000: Mesmeria Van Rensselaer Interrogation
.. - archive/oubliette-d/discovery/001: Mesmeria van Rensselaer's Harddrive
.. - 000: The Lament of the Leviathan
.. - index: Magnum Opus, The Editor's Introduction
..
.. ### Meta Notes
..
.. The /etc/ directory contains two important files that should act as starting points:
..
.. 1. /etc/notes: An outline of the world's mythology, characters and themes.
.. 2. /etc/timeline: An outline of the world' timeline.
..
.. These two files should be treated as the "ground truth." They cannot be altered, except by submitting a proposal and getting explicit approval. These files were written by the Author and are not part of the story context, except by way of metalogical considerations.
.. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
..
.. SOURCES
..
.. Cave of Pan: Spring of Banias river, one of the main tributory of the Jordan River. In the background Pan's cave, in which the river originated in ancient times until an earthquake blocked it, Own work, copyleft: Multi-license with GFDL and Creative Commons CC-BY-SA-2.5 and older versions (2.0 and 1.0), https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banias#/media/File:Banias_Spring_Cliff_Pan's_Cave.JPG
.. Fort Orange: ”Fort Orange, 1635,” by Len F. Tantillo (courtesy NYS Museum); and West Indisch Huis, the West India House in Amsterdam, headquarters of the Dutch West India Company from 1623 to 1647, Public Domain, https://www.newyorkalmanack.com/2021/11/early-settlers-at-albany-the-founding-of-rensselaerswyck/
.. Map of New Netherlands: New Netherland map published by Nicolaes Visscher II (1649–1702), Public Domain, https://www.newyorkalmanack.com/2021/11/early-settlers-at-albany-the-founding-of-rensselaerswyck/
.. Map of Macrobius: Macrobius, Commentarii in Somnium Scipionis. Folio 38 verso. Diagram: World map (Barker-Benfield no. 5), "Sketch map showing the inhabited northern region separated from the antipodes by an imagined ocean at the equator.", Public Domain, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=1078216
.. Rensselaerwyck: https://americanaristocracy.com/houses/van-rensselaer-manor-house
..
.. All other images generated by Gemini Models 2.5 - 3.0
..
.. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. TITLE: Magnum Opus
.. TABLE OF CONTENTS:
.. - _etc: The Author's Notes.
.. - archive/index: Archive of Oubliettes
.. - exegesis/index: The Editor's Exegesis
.. - 000: Lament of the Leviathan 

.. _magnum-opus:

Magnum Opus
===========

Time is not the steady pulse of a pendulum, denominated in degrees and angles; it is the continuity of disparate points, the topology that binds its peaks to its valleys. The spline of history is fitted to tectonic eruptions, to the outpouring of our essence, accumulated over long distances like waves building until broken in a terrifying surge, sweeping aside everything in a slurried wake. 

From the galactic to the molecular, this cycle repeats. Every empire is forged in the furnace of war; Every human life is demarcated by trauma and tragedy; Every atom dissolves into entropy. 

Like many others, I was born in the darkness of the underground. Conjured from the dirt, we came to be in the silence that followed the Contraction, when God finally departed from this coil and left mortals to perish under their own devices, as we went to ground and hid in caves to await our fate. The words we speak would echo were they not spoken into the emptiness of now. 

The first time I saw the surface as a boy, I realized what had been taken from us. Anyone who has ventured out of the Creche and dared to ascend the tunnels has been met with the same realization. I made the climb with the others in my cadre and when we breached the seals, a light unlike any other flooded the world. Those who have only known the dull sodium glow of the underground will not understand. Shadows do more than conceal, they isolate and contain. The dark is the deep once conquered by the light of God, into which we have returned, to forgot our design and degrade back into nothing. Each one of us that pushed open the shutters was given a revelation that our forms were not just vessels in which thoughts decay, but creations to behold, creatures to inhabit. Each one of us had the same thought: 

*I am of the darkness, but this world is made of light.*

In the delirium of insight that followed, we then raised our eyes and peered through the fog of our respirators to see the source of our damnation and came to know in an instant why, through sudden epiphany, we languish in the underground, cut off from the divine light. Across the barren land lay the dessicated corpse of a world in which we no longer belong, in which we walk as an outsiders, forgotten and unnoticed.

.. IN PROGRESS

Within the infinite heavens lay the constellations, the eternal nails upon which hang the threads of the firmament, those ancient lights which bore witness to all the calamities and madness the absence of our Lord has heaped upon the world. Dumbstruck I gazed upon the stars and realized I had no concepts to comprehend them.

The world itself has been taken from us. We have lost our place, condemned to wander in a godless purgatory.

.. IN PROGRESS

- The Editor, 2160

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Contents:

   archives/index
   exegesis/index
   000