.. TITLE: Magnum Opus
.. SECTION: Estate Files

.. _estate-003:

Notes from Joseph Henry's Lectures 
----------------------------------

.. important::

    The following document was confiscated during the execution of a search warrant on the van Rensselaer estate in Albany, New York on October 12th, 2111. Forsenic analysis places the year of the letter as 1835, but this cannot be confirmed.

**Day 1**

(*Brief intro, thank Stephen.*)

Good evening, gentlemen. I would like to thank Stephen for the opportunity to present my findings to the larger group. Moreover, I would like to thank everyone present for the opportunity to examine and study the device you have constructed. It is truly remarkable. I have pondered your findings for many nights. As requested, I believe I have found the theoretical underpinnings of the phenomenon you have discovered. From this, I will suggest several ways to improve and scale your operations.

I start by positing to you a theory. The core principle that motivates the Fulminated Loadstone is a hitherto unknown relation that I shall term the Axiom of Unity. It may be stated as follows: Motion, Ponderable Matter and Galvanic Fluid are convertible states of matter. By rotating the Fulminated Loadstone, we wind the aether around its molecular lattice, condensing from its circular motion a temporary mass. Upon reaching a critical threshold, this mass collapses into electrical tension. 

To make these notions more precise, we begin with the foundations of Natural Law, and the assumptions we must revise to account for the existence of the Loadstone. The Mechanics of Newton assume the Ponderable Matter is constant. For the Loadstone, however, its Mass is a function of its Verticity. Our experimental data suggest,

(*Be sure to number on chalkboard*)

.. math::

    M(\omega) = M_0 + \gamma \cdot \omega^2 \quad (1)

Where :math:`M_0` is the Loadstone's initial mass, :math:`\omega` is its Verticity and :math:`\gamma` is the Coefficient of Aetheric Friction. As we know from Newton, the moment of the Loadstone can be approximated by,

.. math::

    I = \frac{2}{5} \cdot M_0 \cdot r^2 \quad (2)

Where :math:`r` is its radius. Thanks to the discoveries of Eaton and team, we know as we spin the Loadstone, its mass increases over time, :math:`t`. Hitherto this has been done through a gyroscopic device and handcranks. Tomorrow I shall detail my schematics for an engine that takes the basic principles you have unveiled and applies them on an industrial scale.

But I get ahead of myself. To accelerate the Loadstone, we apply torque. The Second Law of Newton tells us Torque, :math:`\tau`, is equal to the time fluxion of Angular Momentum,

.. math::

    \tau = \frac{dL}{dt} = \frac{d(I \cdot \omega)}{dt} \quad (3)

Now, here is where our theory begins to depart from the orthodox, for :math:`I` is usually treated as a constant and factored out of the fluxion, but as the Fulminated Loadstone clearly shows and the Axiom of Unity posits, this assumption cannot be justified. Therefore, we expand this rule with the methods of Cauchy and Lagrange,

.. math::

    \tau = I \cdot \frac{d\omega}{dt} + \omega \cdot \frac{dI}{dt} \quad (4)

This is the key principle that governs the device: rotation must overcome not only the inertial force of the Loadstone, :math:`I \cdot \frac{d\omega}{dt}`, but also the rate at which moment accumulates, :math:`\frac{dI}{dt}`!

Combining Equations 3 and 4, we arrive at the formula describing the Torque Load of the Fulminated Loadstone,

.. math::

    \tau = \frac{2}{5} \cdot r^2 \cdot [(M_0 + 3 \cdot \gamma \cdot \omega^2) \cdot \frac{d\omega}{dt}]

As can be seen, the force of Aetheric Friction grows with the square of Verticity. Therefore, to achieve :strike:`saturation` (*don't say that*) "citrinitas", the device must overcome an inertial threshold. The material within the Fulminated Loadstone is the first empirical evidence of the luminous aether!

(*Pause*)

This in and of itself is enough to shake the world of natural philosophy to its core, but this is merely prologue to the real revolution that Eaton and his team have enabled. 

.. The Fixation Modulus: :math:`\mathfrak{F}`, the maximum density of condensed aether the loadstone can sustain.
.. \omega_c (critical verticity): The speed at which :math:`M(\omega)` reaches this saturation point.

.. Once :math:`\omega > \omega_c`, the mass locks at :math:`M_max`. The term :math:`\frac{dM}{dt}` drops to zero, replaced instantaneoulsy by "Inductive Electrogenesis".

.. The excess Vis Viva is shunted into the commutator.

.. :math:`i = \alpha \cdot \omega`, where :math:`\alpha` is the conductivity of the interface.

.. math:`P \propto i^2 \propto \omega^2`

.. Produces more electricity than steam used to power it.

.. Temperature drops around device when in use. "Latent caloric absorption"

.. The device must be sealed in a graphite and lead box to prevent "Atmospheric Caloric Potential" from being leeched.
