.. TITLE: Magnum Opus
.. SECTION: Archives

.. _archives-002:

Mysterium Hyperboreum: Sive, De Spiritu Mundi in Materia Spitsbergensi Captivo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. important::

    The following document was retrieved from the Archivio Apostolico Vaticano on October 10th, 2111. 

**A Private and Faithful Relation touching the Strange Nature of the Luminous Nitre of the North; Demonstrated to preserve Vital Heat amidst Eternal Cold, and offering Mechanical Proof of the Resurrection of the Body**

*Humbly submitted to the Feet of His Holiness, Mutio Vitelleschi, by his most loyal and unworthy servant, Kenelm Digby, Knight, in the year of the Lord Jesus Christ, 1641.*

Pax Christi.

I apologize beforehand for the length of this missive, but in writing these words, I continually found them lacking the substance they required until I introduced the personal element. Your Holiness is one of seven individuals that knows the nature of my operations in England; I have thus found myself compelled to detail not only the actual events that have occurred, but also the state of my mind and thoughts during the time in question, since Your Esteemed Holiness is perhaps the only person in the world capable of comprehending their significance. I have come to believe through subsequent analysis the mental variable is vital to understanding the course of events. 

So I shall attempt to start at the beginning, though that is no easy task. There are many beginnings to this story. While I was officially inducted into the Society of Jesus when I ascended the stairs of the Mithraeum beneath the Vatican on my fifteenth birth year, you are no doubt aware the sacrifice my father made for the Order when I was but a boy. The true beginning of this story can be traced to a single day: the day my father was dragged in front of a roaring Anglican crowd. It would be unseemly to disgrace this letter to Your Holiness with the barbaric details of his execution. Suffice to say, even when presented with his own beating heart, my father's faith in the Order never wavered. If I could have but a tenth of his honor, then that would be ten times the quantity alloted to the Protestant devils.

.. IN PROGRESS: Kenelm Digby, Son of the Gunpowder Plot conspirator. Catholic. Jesuit connection.

.. IN PROGRESS: Digby is a lifelong Jesuit sleeper who has infiltrated the English court.

.. IN PROGRESS: While in exile in 1641, he is dispatched to investigate a pentient report from a Basque whaler who confessed he had witnessed unnatural phenomenon in the Dutch Spitsbergen whaling colony. Septentrional Zone.

.. IN PROGRESS: Encode lines about the material using atbash cipher. Rest is plain English.

.. IN PROGRESS: The "Hogen Mogens". Hates the Dutch.

.. IN PROGRESS: The Basque details the mining operation the Dutch have set up beneath Spitsbergen. The material.
