.. TITLE: Magnum Opus
.. SECTION: Archives

.. _archives-007:

Falkland Islands Dispatch
-------------------------

.. note::

    This record was obtained from the British National Archives at Kew..

**FALKLAND ISLANDS DEPENDENCIES SURVEY (F.I.D.S.) BASE B DECEPTION ISLAND**

**DISPATCH NO**: 47/19 

**DATE**: 20 February 1947 

**TO**: His Excellency the Governor, Port Stanley

**FROM**: Base Leader, Station B (Whalers Bay) 

**SUBJECT: UNAUTHORIZED LANDING / AMERICAN NAVAL ACTIVITY**

**SEISMIC DISTURBANCE**

At approximately 0805 hours yesterday (19 Feb), personnel at Station B experienced a singular seismic event. Unlike typical tremors associated with the caldera, this was characterized by a sustained, high-frequency vibration lasting roughly 10 seconds. Meteorologist J. Matheson reported that the waters of the bay "boiled white" near the center of the harbor. A surge of approximately 15 feet washed up the beach as far as the flensing plan, causing minor damage to the supplies near the old Hektor tanks.

**AIRCRAFT INCIDENT**

At 0820 hours, a United States Navy helicopter (Type HO3S, marking *UP-2*) effected an emergency landing on the beach, 200 yards west of Biscoe House. The pilot, identifying himself as Lieutenant :redacted:`REDACTED`, was apprehended by our survey team. He appeared physically unharmed but was in a state of acute psychological distress.

**PILOT'S TESTIMONY** 

Despite attempts to calm the subject with tea and brandy, the Lieutenant remained hysterical. He made repeated, nonsensical claims regarding his parent vessel. Specific phrases recorded in the station log include:

- "The bottom opened up."
- "They didn't sink, they fell."
- "The mud took them." 

He insisted that three American vessels had been "swallowed" by the harbor floor in less than a minute. I noted that no wreckage or oil slick was visible in the bay, only a lingering mist.

**AMERICAN INTERVENTION**

At 1000 hours, a heavy launch from the US Task Force (waiting outside Neptune's Bellows) entered the harbor. A detachment of armed US Marines landed at the station. The officer in charge, a Commander Vance, was courteous but firm. He informed me that the pilot was suffering from "severe hypoxia" and "polar delusion.". Moreover, he explained the "seismic event" was a localized underwater landslide caused by their survey charges and we were to vacate the beach area immediately due to "hazardous gas venting."

**PROTEST** 

I lodged a formal verbal protest regarding the armed landing on Crown Territory without prior notice. Commander Vance acknowledged the protest but insisted on taking immediate custody of the pilot and the aircraft. They dismantled the helicopter rotors and loaded the fuselage onto their launch within the hour.

**OBSERVATION** 

Before departing, the Americans were observed taking depth soundings in the center of the bay. They appeared agitated by the results. It is my opinion that the Americans are conducting tests of a kinetic nature that exceed the scope of the "Highjump" survey mandate. The pilot’s terror seemed genuine. I recommend a formal inquiry be directed to the US State Department regarding the true fate of the vessels he mentioned.

*GOD SAVE THE KING*,
A.R.C. Base Leader F.I.D.S. Base B

:handwritten:`Governor advised. Americans claim "training accident" and loss of life. No inquiry to be made at this time. File under "Misc".``